docs: update Kafka MSK IAM authentication configuration (#2294)
fluent/fluent-bit-docs: pipeline/outputs/kafka.md

## AWS MSK IAM authentication

> Starting with version 4.0.4, Fluent Bit supports AWS IAM authentication for Amazon MSK clusters. This allows you to use your AWS credentials and IAM policies to control access to Kafka topics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Fluent Bit version 4.0.4 and later, you can use AWS IAM authentication for Amazon MSK clusters. This lets you use your AWS credentials and IAM policies to control access to Kafka topics.
```

### Prerequisites

- Access to an AWS MSK cluster with IAM authentication enabled
- Valid AWS credentials (IAM role, access keys, or instance profile)

> - Network connectivity to your MSK brokers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use AWS MSK IAM authentication, you must meet these requirements:

- You must have access to an AWS MSK cluster with IAM authentication enabled.
- You must have valid AWS credentials (IAM role, access keys, or instance profile).
- You must have network connectivity to your MSK brokers.
```

### Configuration parameters

| Property | Description | Default |
| -------- | ----------- | ------- |
| `rdkafka.sasl.mechanism` | Set to `aws_msk_iam` to enable MSK IAM authentication | _none_ |
| `aws_region` | AWS region (optional, automatically detected from broker hostname for standard MSK endpoints) | auto-detected |

### Basic configuration

> For most use cases, simply set `rdkafka.sasl.mechanism` to `aws_msk_iam`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For most use cases, the only necessary configuration step is to set `rdkafka.sasl.mechanism` to `aws_msk_iam`:
```

**Note:** When using `aws_msk_iam`, Fluent Bit automatically sets `rdkafka.security.protocol` to `SASL_SSL`. You don't need to configure it manually.

### Using custom DNS or PrivateLink

If you're using custom DNS names or PrivateLink aliases, specify the `aws_region` parameter:

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="fluent-bit.yaml" %}

```yaml
pipeline:
  inputs:
    - name: cpu

  outputs:
    - name: kafka
      match: '*'
      brokers: my-kafka-endpoint.example.com:9098
      topics: my-topic
      rdkafka.sasl.mechanism: aws_msk_iam
      aws_region: us-east-1
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab title="fluent-bit.conf" %}

```text
[INPUT]
  Name  cpu

[OUTPUT]
  Name     kafka
  Match    *
  Brokers  my-kafka-endpoint.example.com:9098
  Topics   my-topic
  rdkafka.sasl.mechanism aws_msk_iam
  aws_region us-east-1
```

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### AWS credentials

Fluent Bit uses the standard AWS credentials chain to authenticate:

1. Environment variables (`AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`)
2. AWS credentials file (`~/.aws/credentials`)
3. IAM instance profile (recommended for EC2)
4. IAM task role (recommended for ECS)
5. IAM service account (recommended for EKS)

> ### Required IAM permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Required IAM permissions

{% hint style="info" %}

For detailed IAM policy configuration, consult your AWS administrator or refer to the [AWS MSK documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/msk/latest/developerguide/iam-access-control.html).

{% endhint %}
```

Your AWS credentials need the following permissions to produce to MSK topics:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "kafka-cluster:Connect",
        "kafka-cluster:DescribeTopic",
        "kafka-cluster:WriteData"
      ],
      "Resource": [
        "arn:aws:kafka:REGION:ACCOUNT:cluster/CLUSTER_NAME/CLUSTER_UUID",
        "arn:aws:kafka:REGION:ACCOUNT:topic/CLUSTER_NAME/CLUSTER_UUID/my-topic"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

Replace `REGION`, `ACCOUNT`, `CLUSTER_NAME`, `CLUSTER_UUID`, and topic name with your actual values.

**Note:** The `CLUSTER_UUID` segment is required in all topic ARNs. You can find your cluster's UUID in the MSK console or by describing the cluster with the AWS CLI.

{% hint style="info" %}
For detailed IAM policy configuration, consult your AWS administrator or refer to the [AWS MSK documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/msk/latest/developerguide/iam-access-control.html).

> {% endhint %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Basic configuration

For most use cases, the only necessary configuration step is to set `rdkafka.sasl.mechanism` to `aws_msk_iam`:

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="fluent-bit.yaml" %}

```yaml
pipeline:
  inputs:
    - name: cpu

  outputs:
    - name: kafka
      match: '*'
      brokers: b-1.mycluster.kafka.us-east-1.amazonaws.com:9098
      topics: my-topic
      rdkafka.sasl.mechanism: aws_msk_iam
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab title="fluent-bit.conf" %}

```text
[INPUT]
  Name  cpu

[OUTPUT]
  Name     kafka
  Match    *
  Brokers  b-1.mycluster.kafka.us-east-1.amazonaws.com:9098
  Topics   my-topic
```

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

See `aws_msk_iam` and `aws_msk_iam_cluster_arn` in the [configuration parameters](#configuration-parameters) table.

The AWS region is automatically detected from the broker hostname for standard MSK endpoints.

{% hint style="info" %}

When using `aws_msk_iam`, Fluent Bit automatically sets `rdkafka.security.protocol` to `SASL_SSL`. You don't need to configure it manually.

> 

Reviewer 2: @kalavt this would need to be addressed to pass the review please?

> 

Reviewer 2: Fixed.

> 

Reviewer 2: Fixed.
